		Fundamentals and key points of Digital Marketing
Hello everyone! today I am going to write about some of the important key points and fundamental terms of digital marketing. so keep calm because it is going to be a long but a worthy read. Hope you will learn and enjoy it.
HOW TO MAKE WEBSITE CREATIVE AND RELEVANT ?
Here are the some of features and tricks that you can use..
1. Add email sign up/register option for sending emails to those users who wants to receive .
2. Add map to your website so that user can find your shop easily.
3. Add gallery (Images+Videos) to your website. 
4. Post ads and find who are interested.
5. Make responsive website i.e website which can adjust according to the size of the device screen of users. for example: responsive website can work on desktop, laptop ,mobile phone, tablet ,etc 
6. Adding a search feature will help people what they want to search for and quickly locate specific products.
HOW SEARCH ENGINE WORKS ?
Mainly search engine works on three principles listed below:
Crawling - examine web content and have permission to see details.
Indexing - categories each pieces of content separately. 
Ranking - most useful content will be ranked first.
WORKING OF SEARCH ENGINE ON BASIS OF WEBSITE CODE:
1. During indexing process, search engine look for the html code of website and search for "title tag" in it and make search more accurate.
2. Search engine does not recognize your coffee image but it will look for image name in code for indexing process. so keep your image name specify to image. ex: image = "Coffee cup" for coffee image.
TYPE OF ADVERTISEMENT
1. Paid advertisement
2. Unpaid advertisement
Paid ads
1. For paid ads you have to bid for buying keywords and your ad content should be relevant to that.
2. Highest bid for particular keyword will be placed first in search.
3. If someone clicks on your paid ad then you will get same bid amount on every click.
Note: ads are arranged in order of bid value.

2. Unpaid ads
Unpaid methods of search engine marketing are perhaps the most familiar. In general,it is as SEO(search engine optimization). it help to rank certain words or phrases for the front page of Google.


HOW TO MAKE SEARCH WORKS FOR YOU?
Important Points to remember while making website.

1. Title - dealer name & business name(ex: john fruits and veg)
2. Meta data - Summary of whole page in two lines(simple & sweet)must contain Business name.
3. Language - use of local language according to country on different web pages.
4. Date & Time - use local date and time. 
5. Address - local address to that country for contact and delivery details.
6. Link - add links of similar types of website to your website with relevant content and keywords.
7. Annotation - add annotation to web pages with different languages.

 SEARCH ENGINE MARKETING(SEM)
MAX CPC(cost per click) - amount you will pay for your ads & receive when somebody clicks on them. 
Quality score - based on your keyword matching & relevance.
 Formula:
 {SCORE = (MAX CPC) X (BID)}
Add Negative keywords to save your money and show your ads to relevant customers only.
Campaigns - It is important to start a campaigns to divide sub categories under main category.
ex: wedding photographer 
a)portrait bridle photograph 
b)wedding party photograph 
c)engagement photograph

NOTE → Ranking of website depends upon its score.
IMPORTANCE OF SOCIAL MEDIA:
Follow some of the steps given below:
1.Make account on every possible social media like Facebook, Instagram ,twitter and many more.
2. Post your latest collection and new updates. don't forget to interact with customers and taking valuable feedback from them. 
3. Using social media analytics tools for reviewing and getting the information about customers visiting website and their activities like seeing ads.
SOCIAL MEDIA HANDLER ELEMENTS:
1. Business name
2.Website address
3.Address or location of shop

SWITCHING FROM WEBSITE TO MOBILE APP:
1. Mobile searchers are very different from PC searchers.
2. Mobile users uses short and specify keywords for their searches.
3. you can use goggle keyword planner for it.
4. Ads are also important, you must post your ads on mobile for better reach to people.
5. Ads must contain a catchy, punchy lines in it for call to action.
6. Add phone number and location also.
CONTENT WRITING
1. answering your audience's questions.
2. providing something of value. 
3. keeping them wanting more.
make your content unique, interesting and exciting. Use engaging headlines, eye-catching pictures and informative language to capture your audience's attention.
GOAL must be to ENTERTAIN , INSPIRE , EDUCATE , CONVINCE.
Audience Segmentation: The division of an audience into groups of who they are and what they like, with a goals of identifying a group most interested in your product/service.
EMAIL MARKETING
Important things:
The first is a contact database that stores your customers' information.
The database needs to include an email address for each contact.
Most software services allow you to include additional information, like name, mailing address, and other information.
Users permission for Emails:
If you want to give people the ability to register themselves for emails updates then give them a signup form, website visitors can then submit this form to sign up for your emails.
This data is then automatically transferred to your contact database.
All you really need is their email address to get started!

Some of the Spam trigger Keywords : free , special, reminder , percent off , ! , $ .


Use of A/B TESTING → A/B testing is when you create two versions of an email to see which one performs better. You can use this technique to test different email approaches which contains different tag line, subject lines, images , etc to check performance.
Points to keep in mind:
1. send fever emails to your customers like monthly digest.
2. don't forget to put link in your email which leads to your impressive landing page.
3. analyse your opening and click through rates using analytic tools.
Tips for landing page:
1. Link should be directed to exact page. (Not the HOME page of website)
2. Landing page should be of responsive design because users are using different devices to read your emails.

 EMAIL METRICS
These are important for your email campaign :
1. Get the opening rate of your emails send to customers.
2. Then look at the click through rates
3. See customers who buy your product and build good relationship with them.
BOUNCED EMAILS
1. Soft Bounces: These are rejected due to a full inbox or size limit restriction on your audience's email server.
2. Hard Bounces: Your emails are blocked or the address you are using is incorrect. A breakdown of hard bounces per email campaign can show you which email addresses to remove, saving you time and effort for your next campaign.
Note: The next step is to adjust any future campaigns accordingly, whether that be to refine the subject lines, review the type of content published, or clean up your subscribers list.


Search advertising 


Search ads are "text" based so they're an ideal way to put content in front of people who already have an interest in a specific subject.Once a person moves away from a search engine, search ads can no longer target them.
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
These can appear on any website where paid advertising space is available.
They can contain graphics, audio and videos.
for example: If you puts a display ad on a cinema listings page, you can draw in cinema-goers who may not otherwise search for his website.
Display advertising networks are like a middleman, connecting businesses who want to advertise, with websites with ad space to sell. 
Your business can then bid for the spots you want throughout all the websites in that network, deciding how much you're willing to pay.
Buyers and sellers are connected every single time pages are loaded, and the ads that win the right to fill the ad spot are shown.
Another thing networks do is handle the money involved in it .Buying and selling ads happens every day, and the networks collect money from businesses and pay the websites that show the ads. 
Networks such as Google Display Network or Yahoo are a great, cost-effective way to get the attention of an individual websites.
Ad networks find ad spaces on websites, and sort out payments.

RE-TARGETING AUDIENCE
1. website homepage visitors, mostly subscribers the website can be re-targeted to draw them back.
2. Re-targeting ads are a way of bringing potential customers back to a site.
VIDEO MARKETING
FACT: According to analysts, one minute of video is worth 1.8 million words! They are a great way to communicate with the world. Videos can go viral and be targeted at the same time to reach a broad audience.
1. Online video is an ideal option to reach your target audience. People all over the world like the movement, energy and messages that can be contained so concisely in videos.
2. YouTube, social media sharing, online ads and video website content are all great ways for ANYONE to reach his target audience through online video.
CORRECT ORDER FOR SETUP: 
1. Plan the video release schedule
2. Create the video content
3. Decide on a location and source props
4. Find a video crew and film the videos
5. Edit and upload the videos on various platforms.

WEB ANALYSIS 
Three types of web analysis:
1. Metric
2. Dimensions
3. Conversion
1. Metric is basically anything you can count.
for example: Unique Visitors , time spent on site ,etc
2. Other than Metric everything falls under Dimension.
for example: The device data we are collecting is called dimension.
Dimensions include things like the device type, what browsers visitors use, their geographic locations, and much more things.
 
3. Let's say customer places an order, fills out a contact form, or does something else that you want them to do when they're visiting your site. This is known as a conversion.

Data Segmentation: It helps you to break down and understand the data you get from web analytics tools in smaller chunks to get more insights and improve your website performance.
Geographic segments: when we look at our visitors by where they live, there are some big differences in whether or not they book a room or place orders.
 
The four main stages of a data cycle are as follows:
Plan - Start by identifying the goals of the campaign
Do - Begin collecting the relevant data and information.
Check - Review your data
Act - Take action to test
Payment Stuff:
1.  An online store never push customers towards over the phone payments, but it does make it easy to buy through the site itself.
2. It gives you a back-end system that allows you to easily manage orders and track shipping.
3. You will then have control over the features of your online store, which will allow you to design it so that it feels more like a real shop for customers.
Third party payment processing
When a customer is taken to a separate site to complete a transaction before being sent back to the original site again this is called "Third party payment processing".
Note: Improving product pages could be the answer if lots of people visit but don't buy from her shop.
Google's Market Finder.
Points for international Marketing:
1. Automated translation services can give people an idea of meaning but won't translate the content as well as a native speaker would, that why there must be a native speaker to manage the page, so he can have conversations with international customers also.
2. PayPal and Wordplay are two systems that have an international focus.
Points to remember for international setup :
1. Customs duties or tariffs
2. Local country taxes
3. Exchange rates
4. Product safety requirements
5. Whether customer needs insurance cover